---
layout: page
permalink: /research/
title: Research
pubs:


##Peer-reviewed publications

1.	Dimanova, P., Borbás, R., Schnider, C. B., Fehlbaum, L., & Raschle, N. (2021, PREPRINT). Direct and indirect effects of dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and emotion regulation strategy use on mental health during Covid-19. [LINK]
2.	Borbás, R., Fehlbaum, L., Dimanova, P., Negri, A., Arudchelvam, J., Schnider, C. B., & Raschle, N. (2021, PREPRINT). Stress, anxiety and socioemotional functioning during Covid-19 in children, adults and parent-child dyads: behavioral evidence and neural premarkers. [LINK]
3.	Menks, W. M., Fehlbaum, L. V., Borbás, R., Sterzer, P., Stadler, C., & Raschle, N. M. (2021). Eye gaze patterns and functional brain responses during emotional face processing in adolescents with conduct disorder. NeuroImage: Clinical, 29, 102519. [LINK]
4.	Fehlbaum, L.V., Borbás R., Paul, K. & Raschle, N. (2020, PREPRINT, under review in Social Cognitive and Affective Neuroscience). Early continuity in neuronal correlates of mentalizing: ALE meta-analyses in adults, children and youths. [LINK]
5.	Borbás, R., Fehlbaum, L.V., Rudin, U. & Raschle, N. (2020, PREPRINT, under review in Developmental Cognitive Neuroscience). Neural correlates of Theory of Mind in children and adults using CAToon- introducing an open-source child-friendly neuroimaging task. [LINK]
6.	Oldenhof, H., Jansen, L., Ackermann, A., Baker, R., Batchelor, M., Baumann, S., Bernhard, A., Clanton, R., Dochnal, R., Fehlbaum, L.V., …, Popma, A. (2020). Psychophysiological Responses to Sadness in Girls and Boys with Conduct Disorder. Journal of Abnormal Psychology. Advance online publication. [LINK]
7.	González-Madruga, K., Rogers, J., Toschi, N., Riccelli, R., Smaragdi, A., Puzzo, I., Clanton, R., Andersson, J., Baumann, S., Kohls, G., Raschle, N., Fehlbaum, L., …, Fairchild, G. (2020). White matter microstructure of the extended limbic system in male and female youth with conduct disorder. Psychological Medicine, 50(1), 58-67. [LINK]
8.	Oldenhof, H., Prätzlich, M., Ackermann, K., Baker, R., Batchelor, M., Baumann, S., Bernhard, A., Clanton, R., Dikeos, D., Dochnal, R., Fehlbaum, L.V., …, Popma, A. (2019). Baseline autonomic nervous system activity in female children and adolescents with conduct disorder: Psychophysiological findings from the FemNAT-CD study. Journal of Criminal Justice, 65, 101564. [LINK]
9.	Raschle, N.M., Fehlbaum, L.V., Menks, W.M., Martinelli, A., Prätzlich, M., Bernhard, A., …, Stadler, C. (2019). Atypical dorsolateral prefrontal activity in females with conduct disorder during effortful emotion regulation. Biological Psychiatry: Cognitive Neuroscience and Neuroimaging, 4(11), 984-994. [LINK]
10.	Rogers, J.C., González-Madruga, K., Kohls, G., Baker, R.H., Clanton, R.L., Pauli, R., Birch, P., Chowdhury, A.I., Kirchner, M., Andersson, J.L.R., Smaragdi, A., Puzzo, I., Baumann, S., Raschle, N.M., Fehlbaum, L.V., …, De Brito, S.A. (2019). White matter microstructure in youths with conduct disorder: Effects of sex and variation in callous traits. Journal of the American Academy of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry, 58(12), 1184-1196. [LINK]
11.	Prätzlich M., Oldenhof H., Steppan M., Ackermann K., Baker R., Batchelor M., Baumann S., Bernhard A., Clanton R., Dikeos D., Dochnal R., Fehlbaum L.V., …, Stadler C. (2019). Resting autonomic nervous system activity is unrelated to antisocial behaviour dimensions in adolescents: Cross-sectional findings from a European multi-centre study. Journal of Criminal Justice, 65, 101536. [LINK]
12.	Fehlbaum, L.V., Raschle, N.M., Menks, W.M., Prätzlich, M., Flemming, E., Wyss, L., …, Stadler, C. (2018). Altered neuronal responses during an affective Stroop task in adolescents with conduct disorder. Frontiers in Psychology, 9, 1961. [LINK]
13.	Raschle, N.M., Menks, W.M., Fehlbaum, L.V., Steppan, M., Smaragdi, A., González-Madruga, K., …, Stadler, C. (2018). Callous-unemotional traits and brain structure: Sex-specific effects in anterior insula of typically-developing youths. Neuroimage: Clinical, 17, 856-864. [LINK]
14.	Raschle, N.M.*, Fehlbaum, L.V.*, Menks, W.M., Euler, F., Sterzer, P. & Stadler, C. (2017). Investigating the neural correlates of emotion-cognition interaction using an affective Stroop task. Frontiers in Psychology, 8, 1489. [LINK] *shared first authorship
15.	Menks, W.M., Furger, R., Lenz, C., Fehlbaum, L.V., Stadler, C. & Raschle, N.M. (2017). Microstructural white matter alterations in the corpus callosum of girls with conduct disorder. Journal of the American Academy of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry, 56(3), 258–265. [LINK]
16.	Raschle, N.M., Tshomba, E., Menks, W.M., Fehlbaum, L.V. & Stadler, C. (2016). Emotions and the brain – or how to master ‘The Force’. Frontiers for Young Minds, 4:16. doi: 10.3389/frym.2016.00016. [LINK]
17.	Eberhard-Moscicka, A.K., Jost, L.B., Fehlbaum, L.V., Pfenninger, S.E. & Maurer, U. (2016). Temporal dynamics of early visual word processing - Early versus late N1 sensitivity in children and adults. Neuropsychologia, 91, 509-518. [LINK]
18.	Raschle, N.M., Becker, B.L.C., Smith S., Fehlbaum, L.V., Wang, Y. & Gaab, N. (2015). Investigating the influences of language delay and/or familial risk for dyslexia on brain structure in 5-year-olds. Cerebral Cortex, 27(1), 764-776. [LINK]
19.	Raschle, N.M., Menks W.M., Fehlbaum, L.V., Tshomba E. & Stadler C. (2015). Structural and functional alterations in right dorsomedial prefrontal and left insular cortex co-localize in adolescents with aggressive behaviour: An ALE meta-analysis. PLoS ONE 10(9): e0136553. [LINK]


##Conference proceedings

1.	Fehlbaum L.V., Peters, L., Borbás, R., Dimanova, P., Röell, M., Ansari, D. & Raschle, N.M. (2020). Intergenerational effects on the neuronal characteristics of the reading network in mother-child dyads. Abstract selected for a talk at the SSECR Second Annual Meeting, Zurich, November 2020.
2.	Borbás, R., Fehlbaum, L.V., Dimanova, P. & Raschle, N.M. (2020). Neural correlates of Theory of Mind processing in children, mothers and child-mother dyads. Abstract submitted to the SSECR Second Annual Meeting, Zurich, November 2020.
3.	Dimanova, P., Borbás, R., Fehlbaum, L.V. & Raschle, N.M. (2020). Assessment of structural similarity in the developing social brain network of mother-child dyads. Abstract submitted to the SSECR Second Annual Meeting, Zurich, November 2020.
4.	Raschle N.M., Fehlbaum L.V., Borbás R., Stadler, C. & the FemNAT-CD consortium (2020). Neuronal development of emotion regulation in adolescents with and without conduct disorder. Abstract submitted to the Flux Virtual Congress, September 2020.
5.	Borbás, R., Fehlbaum, L.V., Rudin, U. & Raschle, N.M. (2019) CAToon – a novel, child-friendly functional neuroimaging task for the assessment of Theory of Mind. Abstract submitted to the SSECR First Annual Meeting, Lausanne, November 2019.
6.	Raschle N.M., Borbás R. & Fehlbaum L.V. (2019). Early development of Theory of Mind - Neural correlates, mental health associations, and intergenerational considerations. Talk at the 19th European Conference on Developmental Psychology, Athens, August/September 2019. 
7.	Fehlbaum, L.V., Raschle, N.M., Menks, W.M., Prätzlich, M., Flemming, E., Wyss, L., …, Stadler, C. (2018). Altered neuronal responses during affective Stroop task performance in adolescents with conduct disorder. Poster abstract submitted to the Flux Congress, Berlin, August/September 2018.
8.	Borbás, R., Fehlbaum, L.V., Rudin, U., Schnider, M., Stadler, C. & Raschle, N.M. (2018). Neural correlates of affective and cognitive Theory of Mind: A novel functional neuroimaging cartoon task for children. Poster abstract submitted to the Flux Congress, Berlin, August/September 2018.
9.	Raschle, N.M., Menks, W.M., Fehlbaum, L.V., Rütsche, B., Borbás, R., Sterzer, P. & Stadler, C. (2018). Atypical neural correlates and eye gaze behavior during emotional face processing in youths with conduct disorder. Poster abstract submitted to the Flux Congress, Berlin, August/September 2018.
10.	Raschle, N.M., Fehlbaum, L.V., Menks, W.M., Prätzlich, M., Kersten, L., Martinelli, A., … the FemNAT CD-Consortium (2018). Atypical neural correlates during explicit emotion regulation in female youths with conduct disorder. Poster abstract submitted to the 6th EFCAP Congress, Venice, June 2018.
11.	Raschle, N.M., Fehlbaum, L.V., Menks, W.M., Prätzlich, M., Kersten, L., Martinelli, A., …, the FemNAT CD-Consortium (2018). Atypical neural correlates during explicit emotion regulation in female youths with conduct disorder. Poster abstract submitted to the Society of Biological Psychiatry (SOBP) 73rd Annual Meeting, New York, May 2018.
12.	Fehlbaum, L.V., Borbás, R., Stadler, C. & Raschle, N.M. (2018). Effects of conduct disorder and/or early language delay on brain structure. Poster abstract accepted to the 4th FemNAT-CD General Assembly Meeting, Frankfurt, January 2018.
13.	Borbás, R., Fehlbaum, L.V., Stadler, C. & Raschle, N.M. (2018). Theory of Mind and Language Processing in 7-12 year olds. Poster abstract accepted to the 4th FemNAT-CD General Assembly Meeting, Frankfurt, January 2018.
14.	Raschle, N.M., Menks, W.M., Fehlbaum, L.V., Prätzlich, M., Kersten, L., Martinelli, A., …, the FemNAT CD-Consortium (2017). Atypical neuronal activation patterns during emotion regulation in youths with conduct disorder. Poster abstract accepted to the 17th International ESCAP Congress, Geneva, July 2017.
15.	Stadler, C., Raschle, N.M., Menks, W.M., Fehlbaum, L.V., Prätzlich, M., Kersten, L., …, the FemNAT CD-Consortium (2017). Neurofunktionelle Korrelate der Emotionsregulation bei Jugendlichen mit und ohne Störung des Sozialverhaltens. Poster abstract accepted to the XXXV. DGKJP-Kongress, Ulm, March 2017.
16.	Menks W.M., Furger, R., Lenz, C., Fehlbaum, L.V., Stadler, C., Raschle, N.M. (2017). White matter alterations in female youths with conduct disorder. Poster abstract accepted to the 4th FemNAT-CD General Assembly Meeting, Budapest, February 2017.
17.	Fehlbaum, L.V., Raschle, N.M., Menks, W.M., Euler, F., Sterzer, P. & Stadler, C. (2017). Neuronal basis of emotion processing and cognitive control in healthy young adults and adolescents with and without conduct disorder. Poster abstract accepted to the 4th FemNAT-CD General Assembly Meeting, Budapest, February 2017.
18.	Kersten, L., Steppan, M., Prätzlich, M., Mannstadt, S., Menks, W.M., Fehlbaum, L.V., …, the FemNAT-CD consortium (2016). Prevalence of community violence exposure and its effects on mental health problems in European adolescents. Poster abstract accepted to the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry (AACAP) 63rd Annual Meeting, New York, October 2016. 
19.	Furger, R., Menks, W., Lenz, C., Fehlbaum, L., Stadler, C. & Raschle, N. (2016). White matter alterations in female youths with conduct disorder. Poster abstract accepted to the Organization for Human Brain Mapping (OHBM) Annual Meeting, Geneva, June 2016.
20.	Raschle, N.M., Menks, W.M., Fehlbaum, L.V., El Qirinawi, I., Prätzlich, M., Kersten, L., …, the FemNAT-CD consortium (2016). Neural markers of callous-unemotional traits in typically-developing teens. Poster abstract accepted to the Organization for Human Brain Mapping (OHBM) Annual Meeting, Geneva, June 2016.
21.	Menks, W., Fehlbaum, L., El Qirinawi, I., Euler, F., Stadler, C. & Raschle, N. (2016). Neural characteristics of face processing in female and male youths with conduct disorder. Poster abstract accepted to the Organization for Human Brain Mapping (OHBM) Annual Meeting, Geneva, June 2016.
22.	Fehlbaum, L.V., Menks, W.M., Euler, F., Flemming, E., Sterzer, P., Stadler, C. & Raschle, N.M. (2016). Frontotemporal and limbic gray matter volume reductions in youths with conduct disorder. Poster abstract accepted to the Organization for Human Brain Mapping (OHBM) Annual Meeting, Geneva, June 2016.
23.	Kersten, L., Fehlbaum, L., Menks, W., Praetzlich, M., Raschle, N., Mannstadt, S., …, the FemNAT-CD Consortium (2016). The impact of community violence in adolescents with conduct disorder. Poster abstract accepted to the 5th edition of the EFCAP biennial congress, Porto, May 2016.
24.	Flemming, E., Raschle, N.M., Fehlbaum, L.V., Menks, W.M., Euler, F., Guggenmos, M, …, & Sterzer, P. (2016). Using multivariate pattern analysis to distinguish youths with and without conduct disorder based on brain structure. Poster abstract accepted to the 5th edition of the EFCAP biennial congress, Porto, May 2016.
25.	Menks, W.M., Fehlbaum, L.V., El Qirinawi, I., Euler, F., Raschle, N.M. & Stadler, C. (2016). Neuronal basis of facial expression processing in youths with conduct disorder. Poster abstract accepted to the 5th edition of the EFCAP biennial congress, Porto, May 2016.
26.	Prätzlich, M., Raschle, N.M., Fehlbaum, L.V., Menks, W.M., Kersten, L., Mannstadt, S., …, the FemNAT-CD consortium (2016). Linking heart rate variability to psychological health and brain structure in female youths with conduct disorder. Poster abstract accepted to the 5th edition of the EFCAP biennial congress, Porto, May 2016.
27.	Raschle, N.M., Menks, W.M., Fehlbaum, L.V., El Qirinawi, I., & Stadler, C. (2016). Functional and structural brain alterations in typically-developing youths with callous-unemotional traits. Poster abstract accepted to the 5th edition of the EFCAP biennial congress, Porto, May 2016.
28.	Menks, W.M., Raschle, N.M., Fehlbaum, L.V., Prätzlich M., Kersten L., Euler, F., …, Stadler, C. (2016). Neuronal characteristics of emotion processing and regulation in female adolescents with and without conduct disorder. Poster abstract accepted to the Cognitive Neuroscience (CNS) Annual Meeting, New York, April 2016.
29.	Raschle, N.M., Menks, W.M., Fehlbaum, L.V., El Qirinawi, I., Fairchild, G., De Brito, S., …, Stadler, C. (2016). Structural brain correlates of callous-unemotional traits and/or aggression in typically-developing adolescents. Poster abstract accepted to the Cognitive Neuroscience (CNS) Annual Meeting, New York, April 2016.
30.	Fehlbaum L.V., Raschle, N.M., Menks, W.M., Euler, F. & Stadler, C. (2016). Neuronal basis of emotion and cognitive processing in young adults and adolescents. Poster abstract accepted to the Cognitive Neuroscience (CNS) Annual Meeting, New York, April 2016.
31.	Menks W., Raschle, N., Fehlbaum, L., Prätzlich M., Kersten L., Euler F., …, Stadler, C. (2015). Investigating the neuronal characteristics of emotion processing and regulation in female adolescents with and without conduct disorder. Poster abstract accepted to the 3rd FemNAT-CD General Assembly Meeting, Bilbao, November 2015.
32.	Fehlbaum, L.V., Prätzlich, M., Raschle, N.M., Menks, W.M., Kersten L., Mannstadt S., …, Stadler C. (2015). Linking heart rate variability to psychological health and brain structure in female adolescents with and without conduct disorder. Poster abstract accepted to the 3rd FemNAT-CD General Assembly Meeting, Bilbao, November 2015.
33.	Raschle, N.M., Fehlbaum, L.V., Menks, W.M., Kersten, L., Prätzlich, M., Mannstadt, S., …, Stadler C. (2015). Investigating the neuronal characteristics of emotion processing and regulation in female adolescents with and without conduct disorder. Poster abstract accepted to the 35th Annual Meeting of the Swiss Society of Biological Psychiatry (SSBP), Geneva, August 2015.
34.	Menks, W.M., Fehlbaum, L.V., Tshomba, E., Stadler C. & Raschle, N.M. (2015). ALE Meta-Analysis on Structural and Functional Brain Alterations in Individuals with Aggressive Behaviour: Future Research Directions. Poster abstract accepted to the 35th Annual Meeting of the Swiss Society of Biological Psychiatry (SSBP), Geneva, August 2015.
35.	Menks W.M., Raschle, N.M., Fehlbaum, L.V., Euler, F. & Stadler, C. (2015). Investigating neuronal correlates of emotion regulation in young adults. Poster abstract accepted to the 16th International ESCAP Congress, Madrid, June 2015.
36.	Fehlbaum, L.V., Raschle, N.M., Menks, W.M., Euler, F. & Stadler, C. (2015). Emotion processing and emotion regulation in youths with empathy deficits. Poster abstract accepted to the Clinical Research Day of University Hospital Basel, Basel, January 2015. Awarded CHF 300 poster price.
37.	Menks, W.M., Raschle, N.M., Fehlbaum, L.V., Prätzlich, M., Mannstadt, S. & Stadler, C. (2014). Paediatric conduct disorder characterized by aggressive traits and/or social impairment: from preclinical research to treatment (introduction of a European wide multi-center FP7 project). Poster abstract accepted to the 1st Computational Psychiatry Meeting, Zurich, May 2014.
38.	Fehlbaum, L.V., Raschle, N.M., Menks, W.M., Euler, F. & Stadler, C. (2014). Emotion processing and emotion regulation in youths with empathy deficits. Poster abstract accepted to the 1st Computational Psychiatry Meeting, Zurich, May 2014.
39.	Eberhard-Moscicka, A.K., Jost, L.B., Fehlbaum, L.V., Pfenninger, S.E. & Maurer, U. (2014). Temporal dynamics of visual word processing – effects of foreign language learning in children and adults. Poster abstract accepted to the 21st Annual Cognitive Neuroscience Society Meeting, April 2014.

##Outreach

01/2021	Interview for Fokus magazine (hep Verlag AG) [LINK]
03/2020	Interview for Swiss radio station SRF2 Kultur, report ‘Kinder-Jahre’ [LINK]
03/2020	#WirVsVirus hackathon participation, project title (‘.brain’) [LINK]
01/2020	Teaching/workshop for school teachers at PH Bern meeting entitled ‘Gemeinsam Freiräume nutzen’: Neurowissenschaften und ihre Bedeutung für das Lehren und Lernen in integrativen Settings‘
03/2015 – 04/2015	School teachings on cognitive neuroscience (‘School and Researchers meet’) for Gymnasium Liestal and Gymnasium Leonhard, Basel

LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/lynnfehlbaum/
ORCID ID: 0000-0002-7649-8699


